[Music]
I've been a Mac User my entire life from
my first clunky laptop to the max out
Intel Mac I bought in 2019 I thought I
knew what Apple was capable of but
here's the thing if you'd ask me 5 years
ago whether I recommend a Mac or a
Windows PC I'd have to say Windows
without hesitation back then Macs just
sucked they were slow buggy and couldn't
handle anything demanding even as a
lifelong Mac User I had to admit Windows
was way better choice for most people
but then something changed today we are
incredibly excited to announce our first
step in this transition with our first
chip designed specifically for the mac
and we call it M1 switching to the M1
fell like going from a bicycle to a
Lamborghini suddenly everything just
worked no noise no heat just pure
effortless power and for the first time
in years I didn't feel like I was
compromising by sticking with apple they
ramped down production on M2 chips
because they weren't selling quite as
good and I think it's really up obious
why because M1 was just insane this is a
traditional PC it has a graphics card a
cooling system a motherboard and a CPU
all separate components working together
but this is the M1 chip that's it no
separate components no bulky cooling
system just a single piece of silicon
that combines CPU GPU and more and the
way it functions makes it not only more
efficient but capable of producing the
same power if not more while using less
energy for years I've watched Apple
struggle with their computers my Intel
Mac was powerful but in Mac was loud and
hot and often made me question why I
wasn't just switching to Windows for the
same price I could have had a machine
that didn't feel like it was all about
to take off so how did Apple go from
struggling to dominating the laptop
industry almost overnight this is a
story of how a single chip
revolutionized an entire industry how
apple b everything on an idea that
seemed impossible and how the M1 didn't
just change computers it changed the way
we think about technology forever when
the Amon shock the industry in in 2020
many assumed that it was a flu a
one-time leap that competitors would
quickly match 4 years later with the M4
series something unprecedented has
happened the Gap hasn't closed it has
become Chasm a MacBook Pro with an M4
Max isn't just competing with other
laptops anymore it's going head-to-head
with desktop workstation that draws five
times more power in the video M Max
versus Razer Pro viewers noticed that
Mac running Windows as a VM beat the
Windows laptop a Macbook run running a
virtual version of Windows software that
typically cuts the performance in half
outperforms a 4,000 razor laptop with a
Cutting Edge RDX 490 but let me take you
back to 2005 Apple was in trouble the
power py chips were failing behind they
couldn't match Intel performance
couldn't keep up with the battery life
and were hammering market share to
Windows PC Apple needed a savior and
they found one in their oldest rival
Intel Steve Jobs took the St at WWDC
2005 and what happened next sent a shock
wave throughout the tech world we are
going to begin the transition from the
power PC to Intel processors and we are
going to begin it for you now and for
our customers next year the same Intel
that jobs had mocked over the years was
about to become Apple's closest partner
after the Intel integration Mac worked
beautifully Mac could even run Windows
they're faster than ever the MacBook Air
revolutionized the laptop design Apple
was selling more Macs than ever before
but beneath this success trouble was
brewing while Apple's iPhone chips just
got faster each year Mac seem stuck
touch it and you'll burn yourself do any
real work on it you'll probably burn
your whole house down Intel's processor
ran hot really hot they needed to
elaborate cooling system just to
maintain basic performance and even then
they often shle under heavy loads by
2019 the table had turned completely
until once Apple savior had become their
biggest limitation the same company that
made phone faster than most laptops
couldn't build a Macbook that could edit
videos without without overheating Intel
had saved the Mac in 2005 but now 15
years later Apple needed another
Revolution and this time they decided to
save themselves the M1 Revolution didn't
start in 2020 it didn't even start with
computers it started with a projection
that would haunt Intel for decades Intel
had the opportunity to build the
processor inside the iPhone there was a
chip that they were interested in that
they wanted to pay a certain price for
and not a nickel more and that price was
below our forecasted cost in 2007 Steve
Jobs offered Intel the chance to make
chips for a new device called the iPhone
Intel passed they thought that mobile
phones were a dead end it would prove to
be one of the most expensive
miscalculation in Tech History left
without a partner for iPhone Apple did
something unprecedented back in 2008
Apple decided that we wanted to create
something that we couldn't buy of the
Shelf they decided to design their own
chips they acquired a small ship company
called PMI for 278 million to most it
seemed like a minor news story in
reality it was the beginning of Apple's
chip ampire what happened next was extra
throughout the years Apple's acus chip
didn't just match the competition they
destroyed it by 2013 the iPhone's
processor was outperforming Intel mobile
chips by 2018 it was matching the laptop
processors and Intel they were still
trying to break into Mobile Market their
diminished years earlier I remember
sitting in my deck one day working on a
complex Photoshop file on one side was
my $5,000 Intel Mac topof the line maxr
specs fans roaring like jet engine on my
other it was my iPad Pro what happened
next was almost comical the iPad breeed
through edits while my expensive Mac
struggled to keep up it was a $800
tablet outperforming a professional
computer that cost six times as much
that moment stuck with me it was not
just about numbers anymore it was real
the future of comuting was hiding in
plain side and it wasn't coming from
Intel but the convention wisdom still
said that this approach could never work
for powerful computers and in inside
Apple Park Executives faced a crucial
decision in June we announced that the
Mac is taking another huge leap forward
by transitioning to Apple silicon they
had Master mobile chips but could they
replace Intel it would mean rebuilding
every Mac app rewriting the entire
operating system risking their most
profitable computer line the last time a
company attempted something this
ambitious was Apple themselves 15 years
earlier the irony was perfect Intel who
once saved the Mac had become the
biggest limitation Apple approached
Intel to make chips for its first iPhone
Intel turned it down and they said that
it had low profit margins now this was
Intel's first great mistake the iPhone
chips that Intel rejected had grown to
be the very technology that would
replace them and in 2020 when Apple
finally unveiled the M1 it wasn't just a
new chip it was a Revenge served code 15
years in the making to understand why
this chip was so revolutionary we need
to understand how computers work
traditional PCS like Intel based Max use
what's called 86 architecture think of
it like complex power hungry language
that prioritize raw performance over
efficiency but that performance comes at
a cost heat power consumption and
complexity arm chips like those in your
iPhone speak a different language it was
simpler more efficient designed for
mobile devices where battery lights
matter while the Intel's x86 chips need
complex instruction to get things done
armed chips take a minimalist approach
pure instruction less power less heat
but the conventional wisdom said that
this approach could never never worked
for powerful computers intel was facing
a crisis for decades they had double
chip performance every 2 years but by
2019 that progress had slowed to crawl
they were hitting physical limitations
of silicon making ship faster me making
them hotter making them hotter meant
more power more cooling more problem
they were stuck within a vicious cycle
deep inside Apple Park project calam was
born the goal was to create a computer
chip that combined the efficiency of arm
with the power of dexa processors but
they weren't just building a chip they
were creating a new way of thinking
about computer architecture and in
November 2020 in the middle of global
pandemic Tim Cook takes the stage but
there is just one more thing it's time
to talk about the mac and introduces the
M1 chip What followed wasn't just a new
chip it was a moment Computing changed
for apple and we built what we call the
unified memory architecture that is
scalable across product you start with
the iPhone but then we scaled it to the
iPad and then to the watch and
eventually to the Mac Apple's approach
was Radical instead of separating
components talking to each other
everything would be on one chip CPU GPU
neuro engine memory all Unified no more
bottleneck no more waiting for data to
move it in components just pure
instantaneous communication it was like
replacing a Rel race with a single
Sprinter when the first test results
came in even Apple Engineers were
shocked the claim seemed almost
ridiculous I am very curious how these
huge new uh performance gain claims will
actually translate to real life 3.5 time
faster CPU six time time faster GPU 18
hours of battery life all while using a
faction of the power in an industry
known for exaggerating numbers these
seemed impossible but Apple wasn't
exaggerating they were being
conservative the chips wasn't just
matching Intel's performance it was
destroying it running so cool didn't
even need a fan they hadn't just built a
better chip they had revolutionized what
computer chips could be uh the single
core score and the multi-core score were
both
higher um by a pretty decent margin um
that's weird right that's a little odd
when the first M1 Max arrived something
unprecedented Happen video editors could
work for hours without hearing a fan
developers saw compile time cut in half
photographers could edit massive files
with zero lag the entry-level Mac 1 air
was outperforming $6,000 Intel MacBook
Pros and got this score which already
puts it above every laptop they've ever
made in single core performance I'm
recording this on an M1 Max MacBook Pro
that I've had since launch you know how
many times I've heard the fan spin up
probably twice twice in years of daily
video editing rendering and pushing the
machine to its limit my old Intel Max
fan would spin up just by opening Chrome
this thing it handles 4K video editing
like it's reading a text file now 5
years and four generations later
something remarkable has happened the M4
chip is here pushing the boundaries even
further but here's the thing many M1
users including myself aren't upgrading
that first generation ship the one one
that revolutionized Computing in 2020 is
still so momentarily powerful that any
simply no need to upgrade every time a
MC chip is announced people ask if I'm
upgrading my M1 Max they ramped down
production on M2 chips because they
weren't selling quite as good and I
think it's really obvious why because M1
was just insane my answer is same why
when I can edit multiple 4K video
streams without any hiccup when my
battery lasts all day when my computer
stays silent under heavy loads exactly
am I upgrading for it's like buying a
rocket ship in 2020 and being told that
now there's a slightly faster rocket
ship when you're already traveling at a
light speed does it really matter I mean
the biggest problem that apple is having
with MacBooks is that they are so good
that people don't want to upgrade it the
impact on the industry was so systemic
the day lower yesterday down another 5%
plus today investors perhaps digesting
the idea that the chip maker issues go
deeper Intel's market value plummeted
qualcom shol to catch up now even
Microsoft is watching Windows laptop
feel be and beginning its own transition
to arm chips but perhaps m1's greatest
achievement wasn't the performance it
was changing our expectations of what
computers could be